(PGText was contributed by Steve Stern of Sipex Corp.  This README file was 
slightly altered by Donald Brandshaft of IC Editors, Inc.)

PGText : ICED PG'able Text Generator
         Version 0.6 by Steven Stern

PGText is a program that generates PG'able text within ICED from standard 
ICED label text.  

To use PGText you must first place an ICED text string with the text you 
wish to have converted to PG'able text. The text generated will follow the 
layer, scale, justification, rotation and location as the original ICED 
text.

All PGTEXT files are in the PGTEXT subdirectory of your installation directory
(usually C:\ICWIN\PGTEXT).  In addition PGTEXT.EXE is automatically copied 
into your installation directory (usually C:\ICWIN).  This file, PGTEXT.TXT is 
copied into your DOC subdirectory (usually C:\ICWIN\DOC).  Finally, 
PGKEY_CF7.CMD is copied into your AUXIL subdirectory (usually C:\ICWIN\AUXIL).

To use PGText you must follow 6 simple steps:

1) Place the desired text string using ICED text. Specify the proper layer, 
size, orientation, justification and location desired.

2) Select the text string.

3) Save the command used to generate the text string in a file called 
PGTEXT.SHO by typing the following ICED command:
  
   SHOW PROG=0 FILE PGTEXT

4) Execute the PGText program to create the command file PGTEXT.CMD that will 
create the PG'able text by typing the following ICED command:

   DOS '^PGTEXT'

5) Execute the command file and watch the new text be generated by typing the
following ICED command:

   @PGTEXT

6) Delete the original selected text string leaving the new generated text in 
place.


The steps 2-5 can be easily programed into one function key by typing the 
following ICED command:

                          @PG_KEYF7

This command executes PG_KEYF7.CMD which contains the line:

  GLOBAL KEY.F7="SELECT NEW; SHOW PROG=0 FILE=PGTEXT; DOS '^PGTEXT'; @PGTEXT"

The above line will program function key F7 to perform steps 2-5.  If you find 
PGTEXT useful, you may want to insert this line in your startup command file.  
The 6th step ("DELETE") should be performed manually to insure that you have 
created the correct string and to prevent deleting something else if you 
selected it.

The following notes apply to this version of PGText:

PGText contains the full character set with the exception of lower case 
characters. PGText converts lower case characters to upper case automatically. 

The font style has been changed to a bolder type for better looks. Because of 
differences in the PGText and ICED fonts, only the character height is 
preserved. This means that PGText will create characters which fit the exact 
height of the ICED text box but will not fit the width of the box. However, 
the justification selected will force the created text to be justified 
accordingly towards one side of the box. The characters created will extend 
beyond the box at the other end.

The program now supports all text justifications, rotation and mirroring. 
However, as in ICED, text is only created to be read at 0 or 90 degree 
orientations. In other words, PGText will reproduce the text created by ICED.

In addition, two special symbols are supported: Copyright and Mask-Set 
Copyright. In order to call these special symbols a two character text 
string must be used. The strings are "@C" or "@M" respectively. Note that the
text string is limited to only these two characters and they must be 
capitalized. Otherwise, the true characters "@", "C" or "M" will be written. 

Special attention should be paid to the size specification to avoid creating
polygon text which is off-grid. The font style in PGText was designed based
on a 10 micron height with 0.5 micron increments. In order to insure that the
generated text snaps to a particular grid, the following equation can be used
to calculate valid text sizes:

          Text_Size = n x 20 x Resolution;     where n=1, 2, 3, ...

