SFMAP renames structures in a Stream (Calma GDSII) file.

Command line syntax:

SFMAP [input_stream_file [output_stream_file]] ([map_file] | /L | /U | /H)
                         
The input_stream_file, output_stream_file and map_file names can include a 
directory name.  Their default extensions are .SF, .SF, and .MAP, respectively.
SFMAP will prompt you for any required file names you do not include in the
command line.

SFMAP reads the input_stream_file and writes a new output_stream_file with 
modified structure names.  The input_stream_file and output_stream_file names
CANNOT be the same. 

You may specify at most one of the following flags:

      /H     Display a Help message and exit.
      /L     Convert all structure names to Lower case.
      /U     Convert all structure names to Upper case.

Examples:

          SFMAP design1 design2 /L

SFMAP will read design1.sf and write design2.sf.  All structure names in 
design2.sf will be forced to lower case.  Otherwise the files will be 
identical.

          SFMAP /U

SFMAP will prompt you for an the input and output stream file names.  All
structure names in the output stream file will be forced to upper case.

If you do not specify a flag, SFMAP modifies the structure names listed in a
map file.  The map file is normally prepared by UNSTREAM.  It can be modified 
with a text editor.  If there are structure names in the input stream file 
that are not listed in the map file, SFMAP will generate a warning but the 
output stream file will still be created.

A map file consists of map lines, blank lines, and comments.  

Map lines have the form:

        M: input_structure_name output_structure_name 
or
        M: structure_name 

The first form specifies that SFMAP should replace all references to 
input_structure_name in the input stream file by references to 
output_structure_name in the output_stream file.  

The second form specifies that SFMAP should not modify references to
structure_name.  It is used to prevent SFMAP from generating a warning that 
structure_name was not listed in the map file.

SFMAP uses C-style escape sequences to unprintable, non-standard or special
characters in structure names.  All escape sequences start with a backslash 
(\).  Unprintable or non-standard characters are represented by a backslash 
followed by three octal digits.  Exclamation points (!) are represented by a 
backslash-exclamation point.  Blanks are represented by a backslash-blank.  
Commas (,) are represented by a backslash-comma.  Finally, the backslash 
itself is represented by a backslash-backslash (\\).  Contact technical 
support if you need help interpreting or creating escape sequences.

Comments start with an exclamation point and continue to the end of the line.
They can start at the beginning of a line or after the end of a map line.
SFMAP ignores blank lines and comments.
  
EXAMLPE:

    M: FLIP_FLOP flip\ flop\! ! Illustrates escape sequences and comments

will cause SFMAP to replace all references to the structure "FLIP_FLOP" with
references to "flip flop!".

Background: 

ICED tries to follow the original Calma GDSII conventions in naming cells.  (A 
CELL in ICED is called a STRUCTURE in Calma GDSII.)  Those conventions allowed
letters, digits, underscores (_), dollar signs ($), and question marks (?) in
structure names.  (Because Microsoft's operating systems do not allow question 
marks in file names, ICED replaces question marks in structure names with 
pound signs.  ICED converts pound signs back to question marks when it writes
a Stream file.)  While the old Calma systems allowed both upper and lower case 
letters in structure names, they were case independent.  (FLIPFLOP, flipflop, 
and FlipFlop all represented the same structure.)  ICED insures case 
independence by converting all letters in cell names to upper case.

Newer, typically UNIX based, systems tend to allow a much wider variety of 
characters in structure names and make case significant.  (FLIPFLOP, flipflop, 
and FlipFlop represent three different structures.)

Now consider the problem faced by a user who must modify a design created on
a UNIX based system.  He gets the original design in the form of a Stream 
file.  He uses UNSTREAM to import the data.  During this process he uses an 
"alias" file to convert the Stream file structure names to valid ICED cell 
names.  When he is done modifying the design, wants to create a Stream file 
that will be exported to the UNIX system.  He should restore the original 
Stream file structure names.  The UNSTREAM and SFMAP utilities work together 
to do this.

Using UNSTREAM and SFMAP together:

The second pass of UNSTREAM (version 1.11 or later) can create a map file.
This file is created whenever any Stream file structure names are modified in
creating ICED cell names. (The conversion of the question mark to a pound 
sign does not trigger creation of a map file.)  If the Stream file was named 
design.SF the map file will be named design.MAP.  Suppose you have 
imported a design, deisgn.SF, using UNSTREAM; modified it using ICED; and 
created a new Stream file, design1.SF.  You can use the SFMAP utility to 
create yet another .SF file, design2.SF, with the original structure names.  
The command to do this will be of the form:

           SFMAP design1.SF design2.SF design.MAP

or more briefly:

               SFMAP design1 design2 design

since default extensions will be supplied by SFMAP.

You can modify the mapping file with a text editor.  Thus, if in the process 
of modifying the design, you created a new a cell FLIP_FLOP, and your the 
design team's naming conventions require a name like FlipFlop, you can add a 
the line:

           M: FLIPFLOP  FlipFlop

to the mapping file.  Indeed, SFMAP will warn you if there are any structures
in the Stream file that were not listed in the mapping file.  This warning can 
serve as a reminder to add the appropriate lines to the mapping file.

Restating the procedure:

Step 1:  Use the UNSTREAM utility to convert the original design, design.SF, 
         to .CEL files.  Make sure to save the .MAP file, design.MAP.

Step 2:  Use ICED to modify the design.

Step 3:  Use ICED to create a new .SF file, design1.SF.

Step 4:  Create design2.SF by running the SFMAP utility with a line like:

                     SFMAP design1 design2 design

         Watch for warning messages about unlisted structure names.  If the 
         are any warnings, they will be displayed on the screen AND recorded 
         in the file design.ERR.

IF THERE WERE WARNINGS:

Step 5   Use a text editor to add the appropriate lines to design.MAP.  
         Instructions are included in the mapping file.

Step 6   Rerun SFMAP.

